
Analysis scripts of calcium imaging in locomoting mice 
==============================

The repository contains custom written Python scripts used to extract calcium transients during forced locomotion. 

The here published python scripts implement the steps and calculation to obtain **locomotion fluorescence** as depicted in Fig. 3 
 of the publication below. 


For more details, please refer to :

Jinn Bao, Michael Graupner, Guadalupe Astorga, Thibault Collin, Abdelali Jalil, Dwi Wahyu Indriati, Jonathan Bradley, 
Ryuichi Shigemoto and Isabel Llano **(2020)**.
*Synergistic action of metabotropic and ionotropic glutamate receptors in cerebellar molecular layer interneurons in vivo.* 


Individual analsyis steps and scripts 
-----------

Experiments were done on **four different animals** in **five different recording sessions**. All animal specfic settings and analysis 
parameters are stored in the ```animalSettings.py``` file. The recording to be analyzed can be specified in the header of the scripts
or given as an input arguments. Possible recordings are : ```'animal#1','animal#3','animal#2','animal#4','animal#1_2'``` . 

### Alignment of images : ```alignImages.py```

This scripts uses the average images from before and after drug application, as well as from before drug application and the recording 
at 820 nm laser stimulation wavelength. Image pairs are aligned using the openCV ```warpAffine``` function. Alignment ouptut is 
presented in a figure (e.g. figureOutput/ImageAlignment_animal#2.pdf). 

```python
python alignImages.py
```
### ROI matching : ```matchROIs.py```

Using the algined fluorescent images, individual ROIs are indentified to represent the same cell body based on their overlap fraction. 

```python
python matchROIs.py
```

### Obtain timing information of the 2-photon imaging stacks : ```readExtractTimeStamps.py```

The timing information of individal fluorescent frames recorded with ScanImage are read and saved in pickle files for further analysis. 

```python
python readExtractTimeStamps.py
```

### Extracting locomotion fluorescence : ```analyzeFluoTraces.py```

This script contains the core fluorescent trace analysis. Baseline fluorescence is determined based on the pre-motorization
baseline. Delta F over F baseline is calculated per ROI. The fluorescence during the forced locomotion period is extracted. 
The decay in fluorescence across locomotion sessions is removed based on the recordings before drug application. 

```python
python analyzeFluoTraces.py
```


    os.system('python alignImages.py %s' % a)
    os.system('python matchROIs.py %s' % a)
    os.system('python readExtractTimeStamps.py %s' % a)
    os.system('python analyzeFluoTraces.py %s' % a)
    os.system('python analyzeFluoTraces820nm.py %s' % a)
    os.system('python analyzeAlexaFluoTraces.py %s' % a)
    

All scripts can be run in a batch using the ```runAllScripts.py``` file. 

Change parameters and re-produce Figures
-----------

**PNAS 2012:**
The parameter values for the stimulation protocol can be changed in `Graupner2012PNAS_FigXX.py` (with XX=2,3 or 4B). Equivalently, the parameters of the plasticity model implementation can be changed in  `synapticChange.py` . The png and pdf versions of the figures can be produced by running the scripts
```python
python Graupner2012PNAS_Fig2.py
python Graupner2012PNAS_Fig3.py
python Graupner2012PNAS_Fig4B.py
```

**J Neurosci 2016:** The data has to be first calculated by running `irregularPairs_Ca-Model.py` for the linear calcium dynamics model and `irregularPairs_nonlinear-Ca-Model.py` for the nonlinear calcium dynamics model. For the linear calcium dynamics model, the calcium integral is calculated semi-analytically in a C++ program, which has to be compiled first by running `make` in the `timeAboveThreshold` directory. The compound figures are subsequently generated by the scripts `Graupner2016JNeurosci_linearCaModel.py` and `Graupner2016JNeurosci_nonlinearCaModel.py`. In other words, the png and pdf versions of the linear calcium dynamics figures can be produced by running the following two scripts
```python
python irregularPairs_Ca-Model.py
python Graupner2016JNeurosci_linearCaModel.py
```

Equivalently, for the nonlinear calcium dynamics model
```python
python irregularPairs_nonlinear-Ca-Model.py
python Graupner2016JNeurosci_nonlinearCaModel.py
```

Equivalently, for the calcium dynamics model with short-term plasticity for the somatosensory cortex plasticity data (Markram et al. 1997, Science)
```python
python irregularPairs_stp-Ca-Makram-Model.py
python Graupner2018_STPMarkramCaModel.py
```

Or for the calcium dynamics model with short-term plasticity for the visual cortex plasticity data (Sjoestroem 2001, Neuron)
```python
python irregularPairs_stp-Ca-Sjoestroem-Model.py
python Graupner2018_STPSjoestroemCaModel.py
```

Requires
-----------
Standard python packages such as **numpy**, **scipy**, **pylab**, **time**, **os**,  **sys** and **matplotlib** are required.

License
-----------
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

